---
layout: post
title:  "Don't Use Spotify"
published: true
permalink: "/dont-use-spotify.html"
---

Music streaming services charge you a monthly subscription if you want to use their service without any ads. This is fine. That's how it should be. After all, they have to power their servers somehow. They're definitely not a non-profit organization, money needs to be made otherwise they have no business being here. So then, what's the issue? You get your music without interruption from advertisements (+ other perks many services offer), and you get to enjoy your music... What's the big deal? False. This is not true, or at least not in the eyes of Spotify.

Spotify doesn't believe in freedom. They lock you in a jail cell if you attempt to use their service without a premium subscription. With the free plan of Spotify, you are thrown into a collage of digital restrictions that emit the worst user experience imaginable.

Those restrictions are as follows: 

- Music can only be played in shuffle mode
- You can only skip up to six times per hour, after that you have to let the songs play out until the next song queues
- Spotify Radio isn't available
- Ads (obviously)
- You can't rewind/fast forward songs
- You can view songs in a playlist, but you can't select a song in a playlist to listen to it (you're forced to shuffle). Instead, you can only listen to the preview of songs.

What?! This is fucking rediculous. This of course makes Spotify look, well, not so good. It's apparent that there's some greed of money in the eyes of the higher ups at Spotify. Spotify is definitely laying the seed and taking the initiative to becoming one step closer to brainwashing our society into believing these restrictions are acceptable. Call me crazy, but I believe companies following the footsteps of Spotify are inevitable.

Many people sadly don't see any issues with these restrictions. I understand that Spotify can do whatever they want, it's their service. If you think that's a reasonable counterargument, you don't get the point. The problem surfaces not from the course of actions from the behalf of Spotify, but rather what this means for our future.

Big tech restrictions are a big thing, I mean fuck.. look at their sactions on Russia. At least the Russia sanctions are for a good cause. What's the cause for throwing an end-user into an environment where 90% of their actions are blocked by a paywall? Other than the money incentive.

If you seriously think Spotify's habits won't be inherrited by other streaming services, I beg you to wake up. When these restrictions slowly become morally acceptable (thanks to Spotify), what will stop other streaming services from doing the same thing? To most companies, their public image means a lot. Their public image won't be affected if their actions are supported by society.

Sooner or later, these restrictions will be a normal part of our daily lives. Who's to blame for that? The people who support it. You can use other streaming services but that won't be an option for much longer without paying for no restictions. The value from streaming services is apparent, this isn't the case with Spotify. You might have a usable music streaming service after you throw your wallet at them, but it hurts the future of how we listen to music.

> "But what about <insert workaround method of listening to music here (i.e., YouTube, pirating songs)> There's still ways to work around these restrictions!!"

Correct. Nobody can take away your privilege to listen to music. No matter how dire the situation is. 

These companies know that if they normalize something, they can benefit from it down the road. The reason they're able to do this is because our totally smart generation allows them to get away with it. Is having even an ounce of dignity a lot to ask for today? I can't begin to tell you the amount of immoral activities companies pull off because society was tricked into giving them the thumbs-up.

> "What do you want from me? There's only so much I can do."

This mindset is the EXACT reason why these companies are able to get away with these things. Spotify is just an example, what about online privacy? Wouldn't you agree that it's better to at least try to win or at the very least slightly impact something than give up all together and guarantee a loss?

Many of you are probably thinking "What is this guy on about? If Spotify's restrictions are such a "sin" of a thing to do, then why are people accepting it? How come it got to where it is now? It seems like he's in the minority". 

The reason these things are able to happen is because most people who want to step in and take action say to themself, "What I do won't mean anything. I'm in the minority. My actions won't get anywhere". Sooner or later, the next guy and the guy after that all give up any thoughts of taking action because it "won't mean anything". This gets passed around and the outcome are these things happening. If you don't think your actions mean anything, you're a part of the problem.

If a small company of twenty people is ran by an abusive boss, and only one of the nineteen employees put his foot down for change, do you think he will get anywhere? Probably not right? That's a 1/19 ratio. What if fifteen of the nineteen employees standup for themselves? We're starting to make progress, right? Apply that concept here, but with way bigger numbers.

I know I'm explaining very basic things to you as if you're a toddler, but sadly these exact things are the cause of why we have these types of issues.

It seems simple, but at the end of the day it seems that people forget this simple logic. The proof is in the pudding. Spotify can profit off this because a lot of people are continuing to support them. There's more people loving Spotify than hating them. As long as that doesn't change, they will likely continue. It's all numbers to these companies, they don't give a fuck if you have an issue with them. They care if 90% of their audience has an issue with them. They're not receiving that much backlash.

Even when companies do receive backlash from society, they often know ahead of time that their backlash was going to be guaranteed. The only reason they continue forward with their decision is because they view the rewards as an incentive that makes up for the backlash (money, etc.).

> "So then what was your point this entire time? Even if everyone stands up for what's right, there's a chance it won't mean anything"

That's a weak mindset to have. Look at the Ukranians. They know they're outnumbered, is that stopping them? Nope. They're powering forward.

A positive outcome that isn't guaranteed shouldn't be a determining factor for your actions or beliefs. You should power forward regardless. Wouldn't you agree that it's better to at least try to win than give up all together and guarantee a loss?

After all, this might not affect you. Maybe if most of these music streaming services copy Spotify, you'll just find an alterative. I hope you were able to realize that the main point to take away from this isn't necessarily the overall impact this will have, but rather the lack of confidence people as a whole have to make a move to better something. We all can easily adapt to Spotify's bullshit, but what about situations more dire than this? To argue that the lack of impact Spotify's decisions will have on us is the reason nobody cares to do anything is a really bad argument. Not only is it not true, but it again proves that you don't get the point. People allow companies to shove them around, it's happened time and time again. This very reason is why a lot of the world is the way it is today. People allow companies, services, or other people to do immoral things and get away with it. 

There is something you can do, stop using Spotify. Is my goal here to put Spotify in bankrupcy with my blog??? Obviously not, but the more people that stop supporting them, the better. I'll reiterate: A positive outcome that isn't guaranteed shouldn't be a determining factor for your actions or beliefs. You should power forward regardless. Wouldn't you agree that it's better to at least try to win or at the very least slightly impact something than give up all together and guarantee a loss?
