---
layout: post
title:  "Saving money on weed 101"
published: true
permalink: "/marryj"
---

**I do not condone or encourage the use of drugs. By reading any further, you agree to not attempt to recreate anything mentioned in this post. If you do recreate anything in this post and participate in the consumption of marijuana, you agree that you are following all laws in your area.**

Thousands of years ago in Asia, a couple of cavemen stumbled across an unknown plant in the middle of the forest. They began gathering materials to build a fire, harvesting the plant thinking nothing of it.

Fast forward 20 minutes: They are high as fuck.

Present: Weed is becoming acceptable and legal once again in society (for the 100th time).

"Those cavemen had a blast, I want to be like them.. BUT WEED IS JUST SO EXPENSIVE!!!" 

Regulations = consistency, but that comes with a cost... TAX MONEY. If you want weed at a dispensary, you are going to be taxed through the roof. Is it cheaper to stick to your plug???

What many people don't understand is weed is only as expensive as you make it. If you smoke 24/7, it's going to hurt your wallet. If you spark up on the weekends, it is not going to hurt your wallet.

The starting cost is nothing. You can smoke, right now, for the first time, for $60. Let's say you buy an 8th of weed for $35 and a pipe and a lighter for$25. You probably spend that in a week on coffee, it's not like you can't afford it. Make coffee at home for 10th the price instead of going to Starbucks every morning. Hell, you can even buy THCA prerolled joints at a local smoke shop for $20-$30 to see if you like the feeling of Delta 9 THC, and THEN you can go fucking crazy purchasing bongs and shit if you do.

## THCA Products (Legal weed)

Did you know that you can have weed legally shipped to your doorstep without showing ID? 

Introducing: The 2018 Farm Bill.

Prior to 2018, your homies had to ask their friends for contact information of a guy who knows a guy who knows a guy, who sells weed out of his garage. You pull up to the garage, hand over the money hoping you don't get robbed, and then you dip without even knowing what the fuck is in the bag. Even the DEALER didn't even know what the strain was half the time, because he just buys it from someone and upcharges it. Most dealers also just make up strain names."Oh yes!!! This is that new Gorilla Glue Mildew strain!". They just take a popular strain name so that you think it's legit and then they slightly modify the name, so that way you don't feel scammed when you smoke it and realize it's not Gorilla Glue. "I got this new Blue Fever Dream in stock!!!, next week I'll be stacked on Boyscout popcorn".

If you're in highschool like I was prior to 2018, you don't care what you're smoking. You're desperate. You don't care what the strain is, how well trimmed it is, the terps. You just know that if you smoke it, it makes you feel a certain way.

Nowadays, we don't have to get into our cars and drive to a sketchy attached garage. We can go on the internet and have weed sent directly to our door.

The people who made the 2018 Farm Bill weren't knowledgeable on weed, which caused them to write a law that doesn't make any sense. This allowed for a lotof loop holes in the law. The 2018 Farm Bill helped the weed scene, as it spawned an entire market of alternate cannabinoids such as Delta 8 THC, Delta 10 THC, etc. which are all ALSO psychoactive similar to Delta 9.

According to the 2018 Farm Bill, what "legally" (keyword) classifies marijuana is hemp that contains a Delta 9 THC percentage greater than 0.3. This is why the alternate cannabinoid market blew up, because it advertised medicinal benefits of the Cannabis plant to a larger quantity of people. Don't have yourweed card? Too sensitive to Delta 9, or simply don't like the feeling? Try Delta 8! How about Delta 10? Do you see why this helped the community? 

There are downsides to the alternate cannabinoid market that you need to be aware of, however... They are not regulated, so quality/legitimacy factors maybe inaccurate.

Alternate cannabinoids (Delta 8 in particular) are typically refered to as "Diet weed", because the other psychoactive cannabinoids from the cannabis plant aren't as strong as Delta 9. They are different cannabinoids that have different feeling highs. Delta 9 isn't comparable to Delta 8 or 10, for example. They have some similar aspects, sure... Euphoria, etc.. but the highs are completely different. As someone who used to consume Delta 8 gummies as if it was a bag of fucking potato chips, I can indeed attest to the fact that Delta 8 is nothing like Delta 9. No alternate cannabinoids can be put on the same level as Delta 9. I smoke regular weed now. Don't worry. It's legal where I live, I am not "confessing".

Back to THCA flower. THCA flower is weed. Literally. It's the same exact thing, it's just weed that is legal. You may be like "How does that make any sense? It barely contains any Delta 9 THC, how am I going to get high?".

When you heat THCA (when you light it and smoke it (or if you're a cavemen building a fire)), the THCA converts into Delta 9 THC. This is how edibles are made, BTW. You decarboxylate the raw weed by putting it in the oven at around 220F'ish. 

THCA alone will not get you high, you have to convert it to Delta 9 THC.

This is possibly the best loophole ever created. You literally have the acid version of Delta 9 THC (THCA (the "A" stands for Acid)) and because it isn't "Delta 9 THC", it legally bypasses the 2018 Farm Bill law.

"Regular weed" barely contains any Delta 9 THC either. It's just a percentage slightly greater than 0.3, which is why it has to "legally" be regulated in a dispensary with security and a check-in room where you scan your medical card and show your ID. Even regular weed is mostly THCA. THCA flower looks like"regular weed", smells like "regular weed", and smokes like "regular weed". In other words: It is weed. 

THCA flower can be great for saving money on weed as you're not paying taxes at a dispensary, but the shipping costs if you buy it online may or may not be worth it for you depending on where you live. Shipping should ideally be in the 10$ range as you can often find coupon codes to get 20-25% your order, which normally covers shipping costs.

# Tips

## Moderation

We're going to start with the obvious. If you smoke weed every morning and night, you are going to burn through your weed very quickly. Especially since your tolerance will skyrocket, requiring you to smoke even more weed to get high. You want to smoke less often to maintain control of your tolerance.

Another good reason to practice moderation is to get used to not being high all the time. If a situation in your life comes up out of nowhere that requires you to be sober, you will feel withdrawal symptoms such as brainfog and body lag and it will make the entire day extremely hard to power through as you feel like a zombie that just woke. It's also nice to get a breath of fresh air every now and then, being high all the time makes you forget who you really are. The version of you being high eventually just becomes you as a person if you smoke all the time. I can totally see me smoking every night, but I will never be the guy who is high all the time.

Again, this should be obvious.. but if you abruptly go from smoking weed 24/7 to being sober for an entire day, your body is going to be like "what the fuck?!" and you're going to feel horrible.

There is obviously no "set amount" of times you should smoke. It will depend on your needs, your schedule, your wallet, and simply how much you personally feel like smoking. Ideally a couple of times a week here and there, or maybe just on the weekends.

Another thing you can do to aid in better moderation is to make weed less appealing. For example, if you have your weed supplies in plain sight displayed on your table, you're going to see it all the time and constantly be reminded of it. Try keeping it in a cabinet or somewhere that it won't be a constant visual reminder that you have weed at your fingertips.

## Always buy in bulk 

I did some simple math for you to demonstrate why you always buy in bulk.

Hypothetically speaking, let's say you reup on an 8th (3.5g) every month. For the sake of this hypothetical, you're reupping on Gorilla Glue which is normally $40 for an 8th, let's pretend that it's $10 shipping.

Jan 1 - You purchase 3.5g for $40, $10 shipping
Feb 1 - You purchase 3.5g for $40, $10 shipping
March 1 - You purchase 3.5g for $40, $10 shipping

Total for an oz after 8 months: $400 ($40 per 3.5g x 8, $10 shipping x 8)
Total if you buy an ounce in bulk: $275 ($10 shipping)

An oz in bulk is $265 on the site that I am looking at.

^^^^ WHY YOU **ALWAYS** BUY IN BULK

A lot of people buy either 7 grams or 14 grams (half an ounce) at a time when they're buying in bulk. Not everyone has the money to throw down for an entire ounce. Don't feel obligated to buy an ounce. I just used an ounce above as an example.

You're spending less money and time because you only have to reup every now and then since you're buying big quantities. It will last you forever. 

Buy in bulk if you know it's a strain that you really like and if you can afford it.

There are no disadvantages to buying in bulk. You're going to smoke all of that weed regardless, so might as well save some money and buy in bulk. If you don't buy in bulk, just know that you're going to reup on that same weed later down the road in smaller quantities regardless and waste more money. At that point, why should you NOT buy in bulk? 

People get tricked by the amount of money they're paying upfront. They see that it's cheaper, without realizing that they're going to be burning money down the road if they continue to smoke weed while making a habbit of buying small quantities (anything below 7g for the most part).

## Smoke out of glass

If you smoke a joint or a blunt, the tip will constantly be burning as you smoke it which will be wasting your weed whenever you're not actively hitting it. With glass, only the weed will be burning. There won't be any paper that is constantly burning the joint/blunt closer to your fingertips.

Bongs in particular are very weed efficient as you only need to smoke a very small amount of weed to get extremely high. One bowl will get most people high. This is due to the natural way that bongs work. Bongs shotgun the smoke down into your lungs, getting you baked.

Compare this to a joint or a blunt, where you need to pack around .5 grams for a joint, blunts require even more weed. Typically 1-2 grams. Meaning you will blow through an 8th VERY quickly if you're a blunt smoker.

Bongs will make your weed last a very long time while getting you baked at the same time. This is why most people smoke out of bongs, that and they look cool of course.

Glass pieces are a one time purchase. Glass pieces can be pricy initially, but it's an investment down the road (similar to buying in bulk). If you like to roll up here and there, you constantly have to purchase papers, swishers, etc.

You can still roll up if you're a big joint/blunt smoker, just try to keep it to a minimum to stretch out your weed as much as possible.

Also: Not all glass pieces are expensive. You can find cheap bongs, bubblers, and so on that are extremely affordable. I own a $35 14" beaker bong, for example. It doesn't look as cool and the glass isn't made of the best glass out there, but cheap glass pieces do not offer a "worst" smoking experience . You will get just as high with a $35 bong as you would with a $1000 bong.

With more expensive bongs, you're mainly paying for the brand, the quality of the glass. Sometimes bongs will have extra features like ice catchers, percolators, slides, ash catchers, and so on.

## Smoke concentrates

Flower and concentrates are what most stoners use to get high. Flower is good, but concentrates are better for getting baked than flower. Concentrates also have many use cases that flower is awful for. For example, concentrates are more portable and do not smell nearly as much as flower. The method in which you're using to dab will determine how much smell it produces. If you use your glass dabbing rig to take dabs, it will produce more smell than if you were to use a little portable pocket vaporizer to take dabs out of such as the TOQi 510. Just an example.

Concentrates are pretty expensive depending on what you buy. Diamonds are going to be cheaper, whereas something like live resin will be more expensive. Live rosin is going to be even more expensive.

## Stay away from carts, pens, vapes, etc.

Smoking flower and concentrates (whether it be from your dab rig or a portable vaporizer) should be the only methods you use to get high outside of edibles. They are the most convenient ways to get high, the most cost effective long term, and they both give you the most "bang for your buck".

You want to stay away from carts, pens, & vapes in most cases. 

This market tends to aim towards people who live with their parents, or in an environment where smoking is not allowed. This means they have to smoke in a way that produces little smell to prevent getting caught. They then purchase a live resin cart, a distillate pen, or something equally as bad.

I totally understand the convenience factors, but as I mentioned in the concentrates section above, you can purchase your own portable vaporizer to take dabs out of instead of buying a disposable cart or some other device that comes with concentrate already in it.

Carts and all of those other devices had a market for them years ago, but in todays world they're obsolete.

Purchasing a portable vaporizer may be expensive initially, but it is an investment down the road. Every time you go to a dispensary, a smoke shop if it's a THCA product, or your plug (please for the fucking love of god do not buy street carts/pens/vapes), you're paying not only for the concentrate inside, but also the disposable device. EVERY TIME. EVERY SINGLE TIME. That adds up down the road. That's not even including the dispensary taxes EVERY SINGLE TIME you reup if you purchase from a dispensary.

  It is smarter in every single way imaginable to purchase your own portable pocket vaporizer to take your dabs out of, and your concentrate separetely. From that point going forard, you ONLY have to buy new concentrate. The device will last you ages. Not only does it save money, but you have more options.You can pick and choose what device you take your dabs out of, and what concentrate you put inside. With a dispo, you're stuck with whatever concentrate comes inside of it and the disposable device.

The only time you should buy a disposable as apposed to your own device and concentrates, is if you're out of town and left your supplies at home. Only then would it convenient to purchase a dispo.

There may be other niche situations where they're convenient, but most of the time they're pointless.

## Kief

The kief catcher on your grinder can be a good place to resort to if you want ground up weed that you can use for many things. Kief can be good for edible recipes such as Cannabutter.

Kief makes a great "bowl topper". Just make sure there's already flower in there, as simply loading a "kief bowl" isn't the smartest idea unless you're smoking out of a pipe or something that doesn't have a hole in the bowl, like with bongs. Even with pipes, you're going to have not the best experience as kief burns extremely quickly, resulting in harsh hits. ESPECIALLY when you pair that with the fact that you're smoking a PIPE.

## Gravity bongs

Gravity bongs are regular bongs but on steroids. They get you even higher with very little weed.

Cons: They typically are expensive, and not as cool as regular bongs. The smoking experience is also better with regular bongs in my opinion.

## Have an "allowance" for weed

If you don't play your cards correctly financially, you may sometimes find yourself in a situation where you need to reup on weed, but you don't have the funds to buy in bulk to save as much money as possible. Maybe you only have $40 after bills and what not, and that is what you put down towards weed. It'll be enough to get you weed, yeah.. but as we already discussed, you lose money long term. It won't "break the bank" if you can't always buy in bulk, but you should be buying in bulk whenever possible.

Buying in bulk also means you will have more weed, which will last you longer... which will give you more time to save up for even MORE weed. It's a cheat code when you think about it. Buying in bulk & moderation are by far the 2 methods that will stretch your weed out to last twice as long MINIMUM.

## Grow your own weed

I saved this for last as majority of people do not want to put in the time, money, and effort into growing their own weed. It can be extremely useful though and can save you a lot of money in the long term. It's also pretty fun.

The initial starting cost will obviously be more on the expensive side.

Growing your own weed takes a lot of time as they can take upwards to 8 months to grow. It takes a decent amount of knowledge when it comes to growing plants, so if that's not really your thing then it's probably best to avoid growing your own weed.

There are many benefits that come from growing your own weed, but you for sure need to know about the cons.

Money. Time. The smell (it will make your entire house smell like weed once the terpenes start developing). Laws. 

Make sure to do research on the laws where you live when it comes to growing weed.

# Tips for THCA smokers

## Never buy from smoke shops

Smoke shops are finessing you because they buy THCA products the correct way; on the internet, and then they upcharge you in their store. 

When you buy a product from a smokeshop (regardless of what it is), 80% of the time you can find it cheaper online. This goes for all retail stores BTW, not just smoke shops.

Smoke shops usually have retailers they order their products from. They will have to pay various things such as fees, shipping costs, and so on. This will make them upcharge the product so that way they're making money off of it. They're obviously not going to charge you what THEY PAYED for it, they won't make any money doing that. You have to think from a business perspective.

When you buy something from a smoke shop, you're paying for the luxury of being able to walk out of the store with the product. You don't have to wait for it to ship to you.

Also, smoke shops typically won't allow you to buy flower in bulk. Most of the time they only allow you to buy individual 8th packages. We already know by now why this is a horrible idea.

Buying an 8th from a smoke shop may be fine if you're out of weed and you want to smoke RIGHT NOW, then sure buy an 8th from a smoke shop while your other flower is coming in the mail. Just don't make it a regular thing or you will be burning money.

When you buy online, you can ALWAYS buy in bulk. You're not going to find a single website that doesn't allow you to buy in bulk. Also, you can have any strain you can think of delivered to your front door. At smoke shops, they typically only have a couple of strains.

Even with shipping costs, you're going to be paying either less money than what you'd pay at a smoke shop, or slightly more. Even if you're paying more, it's sent directly to your door so it makes up for it. If you're buying in bulk, it saves you money regardless. There are many other factors obviously, if you're purchasing a top shelf strain then no shit it's going to be more expensive than the random strains they have at smoke shops.

I'm not saying smoke shops are the devil of the planet, they're just not practical when you can buy weed online. Just don't expect to walk into a smoke shop and find Grandaddy Purple or some shit. They typically won't have extremely popular strains like Gorilla Glue, Blue Dream, etc. SOME DO THOUGH!

## Bundle as many things into your cart before checking out

Prior to checking out, ask yourself if the website sells any other products that you need. Doing this will bundle everything into one order, meaning you're taking full advantage of the shipping cost.

If you order something from a website, and then two days later you realize that you forgot to buy something before checking out, you now have to place ANOTHER order and pay for shipping a second time. 

You're already paying for shipping, so take advantage of that and buy as much as you can to be shipped at the same time.
